(upbeat music)
All right, let's talk about
async await, I've got this promise here and
promises are great but the syntax is
a little bit weird right? This whole .then,
If you need run anything after one of these
you have to put it in the .then and
it's still kind of callback-y like yeah
we got outta callback hell, but we're still
inside of at least one level of callbacks here.
So async await is still 100% promises so
it's not async await vs promises it's just,
async await is a new syntax that will allow us to
use the keyword async and the keyword await
for a much nicer much easier to read looking code
and we'll see how that works in just a second.
So, first thing's first is that your functions
that return promises still stay exactly the same way.
There's nothing that needs to change
about your promise generating functions it's
all in where we actually call the code where
async await comes in handy, so let's go into our
playground here and make a new file, call it
async-await.html and we'll give it our base
and give yourself a script tag.
Now let's make that wait function again so make
a function called wait type standard milliseconds
we'll default that to zero and we will
return a new promise that resolves
after however many seconds we'll say
set timeout resolve after how many milliseconds.
Now if we want to be able to use the
async await syntax there's a couple things that
need to happen. First of all you can only use
async await inside of a function that is marked
as async, so what we have to do
is you have to make a function and say
well lets just make a function called go
and the way it's going to work is we're going to
console log starting and then we're going
to console log ending and if we wanna maybe
wait for two seconds in between there what we're
gonna do is we would say just wait for two
seconds now we all know that if we run this function
on page load lets do it, put it in the browser
we get starting ending immediately. So what async
await allows us to do is we can put the keyword
await in front of a promise based function and it
will sort of temporarily pause that function from
running until that promise is resolved.
Now this isn't going to work as we refresh it
will yell at us, await is only valid in async functions
so what you need to do is you need to mark your
function as async and what that does is it tells
your function hey inside of me i'm going to be doing
some awaiting so you have to first mark your
functions as async you cannot use await anywhere else
except in async functions now if we go ahead and
save this and refresh we get starting
and then two seconds later we get ending
that's beautiful because there's no dot-then-ing
there's no weirdness that is chaining things like
that if I want it to wait for another amount
after that so starting running and we want a
wait maybe another 200 milliseconds and then
console log ending it will work
starting running ending right?
You're able to just stick these in wherever you want
and that function will temporarily pause
until that promise has been resolved
now this marking functions as async you can
do that with any type of function so
what kind of functions do we have well we
have our function declaration which is this so
async function go and lets just name them
all here fd we'll call that and then we could also
have an arrow function so const arrow FN is
equal to something like that and if you want to make
an async function you just put the keyword async in
front of it. What other types do we have? We also have
callback functions so that would look something
like this window dot add event listener click
and we have a function here
and if that is your callback function you put
async, we also have methods, so const person
is equal to an object inside of that we might have
say hi and that is equal to a function, you want to
mark that you just put the async keyword in front
we also have the method shorthand so we'll maybe
have a say hello function looks like that and if
you want to mark it as async you put async
in front of it, we also have function
property maybe we should name these
this is method shorthand and this is method
so function property that would be say hey is
equal to async arrow function like that
and I believe that's all the different
types of ways that we can declare functions.
So essentially whenever you have a function just
put the word async in front of it and that will allow
you to do awaiting inside of it you cannot do what is
referred to as top level await meaning if I would
just open up a script tag here and I were to do
console log one and two and I wanted a two hundred
millisecond in-between that I couldn't do
await wait two hundred milliseconds.
Watch it'll probably say something about top level await.
Await is only valid in async function okay
you can though paste that into dev tools I believe lets see.
Await is not defined why not its because oh it's
probably because I have broken JavaScript on the page.
Invalid shorthand property initializer on line fifty five
what did I do here oh that should
be a colon not an equals sign ah there
we go okay so I should be able to take
do an await inside of here and if I paste that in
say like here it'll give me that you cannot use it
but I think I can paste it into dev tools like this and
so top level await does work in DevTools but doesn't
work anywhere else they're talking about adding it
to node but at the time of recording it is not in
node as well so you must always have an async function
which you can await inside. Lets take a look at some
other examples lets go to that promises dot html file
that we have and lets grab this make pizza function
and move it on over to our async await I'm just
going to comment out all of these here because
it's just showing you how different functions
work I want to have that for you as a reference if
you want to go back to it but it's not
all that useful to use right now so we have our function
wait we have our function make pizza
both of these functions return
a promise and then what we can do is inside of our
async function maybe we'll make another one hold on
yeah so async function make dinner and we'll say
const pizza one is equal to make pizza and
and we want to make a pizza with pepperoni
and if I were to console log
pizza one what are we going to get
so it's an async function we're
sticking make pizza in there.
Why isn't it working? Because I didn't run the function
make dinner here we go let me comment out
go right now because i'm not caring about that
now I get a promise okay well that's not my
pizza why well if you want the
actual data that comes back from a promise you must await
it if you just run the function and store it in a variable
that will store the promise in the variable
but if we take this and put an await in front of it it will
run the make pizza function and then wait and the reason
why its await and not just wait is because it is
asynchronously waiting meaning that its not going to
actually pause all of JavaScript it's not going to block
the rest of this JavaScript on the page from running so if
I were to run both go and make dinner at the same time
these don't interfere with each other it's just this
function that will temporarily pause so we are
asynchronously waiting for the pizza to be done and
when it is done we'll simply console log it. And there
we go now you see after however long it takes we get the
console log of the pizza in our browser.
Similarly we can also do pizza one pizza two if I want
to make another one with mushrooms
console log pizza two
boom boom they each take their own amount of time now
question is how would I wait for both of those to be done
because this could be possibly inefficient and this is
what we refer to as a foot gun in the industry where if
you give somebody the tools to do this its possible that
you could make code that is not performant meaning that
if I'm making a pepperoni pizza and a mushroom pizza
I'm totally waiting for the pepperoni to be
created baked and taken out before I even start making
the next pizza and its likely that you could make
both of those at the same time its likely you could
make pizza concurrently so what we'll do is instead of
running waiting for one and then moving onto the next line
and making the next one we will remove the await from both
of those we will add the word promise to each of these
pizza promise and then we'll make one big promise that
we can await so we'll say const pizzas
is equal to promise dot all and we'll say
pizza promise one pizza promise two, now if we console
log pizzas what are we going to get?
We immediately get the mama promise but that's not
what we want we want to wait for the pizzas
so how do you get the data? You await the mama promise
and instead of returning a promise now it will return
us the pizzas when they are done. And we can go ahead and
de-structure that into pep and mush and now we've got two
variables called pep and mush because this now will
return an array we can take the first item
into pep and the second one into mush
and now we've got both of our values here.
boom So what I want to do now is lets go back to
the code that we wrote early on with the promise chain
and lets rewrite this one more time into async await
so what I'll do here is lets take the animate
copy it and I'm going to paste it again
so now we have two functions called animate
and lets just call this one animate async
ah that's not a good name because their both asynchronous
so that maybe shows that one is asynchronous so
we'll just call it animate two and then we will hook
up the click event to animate two and then will go back up
to our animate two function here and first thing you
need to do is mark that function as async and lets
open it up in the browser make sure it still works
good then oh this is going to be so good and
hopefully this will show you the beauty of async await
is that we simply just need to say await wait then
we can add a class list circle then we can await
another five hundred milliseconds get rid of that
get rid of that get rid of that and add that then
we'll await that get rid of it get rid of it
await that get rid of it get rid of it await that
get rid of it get rid of it
What's this, is that it?
Look at that so now we have async function animate two
and there's no thens there's no callbacks we simply just
paused the function from running with our await
in front of a function that returns to us a promise.
In the next video I'm going to show you a couple
different ways how to handle errors in async await
and then we'll dive into some built in like there's
a lot of browser api's that come with async await and
promises baked in and we'll look at how we can use those.